In the information age, the barriers [to entry into programming] just aren't
there. The barriers are self imposed. If you want to set off and go develop
some grand new thing, you don't need millions of dollars of capitalization. You
need enough pizza and Diet Coke to stick in your refrigerator, a cheap PC to
work on, and the dedication to go through with it. We slept on floors.
We waded across rivers.

- John Carmack
  Masters of Doom: How Two Guys Created an Empire
  and Transformed Pop Culture
%
The speed of light sucks.

- John Carmack on network latency
%
Programming is really just the mundane aspect of expressing a solution
to a problem. There are talents that are specifically related to actually
coding, but the real issue is being able to grasp problems and devise solutions
that are detailed enough to actually be coded.

- John Carmack
  Slashdot interview
  October 15, 1999
%
Beware of bugs in the above code; I have only proved it correct, not tried it.

- Donald Knuth
  Notes on the van Emde Boas construction of priority deques:
  An instructive use of recursion (1977)
%
The reason is not to glorify "bit chasing"; a more fundamental issue is at
stake here: Numerical subroutines should deliver results that satisfy simple,
useful mathematical laws whenever possible. [...] Without any underlying
symmetry properties, the job of proving interesting results becomes
extremely unpleasant. The enjoyment of one's tools is an essential ingredient
of successful work.

- Donald Knuth
  The Art Of Computer Programming
  Vol. II, Seminumerical Algorithms
%
I had a running compiler and nobody would touch it. ... They carefully told me,
computers could only do arithmetic; they could not do programs.

- Grace Hopper
  Implementor of the first computer programming language compiler in 1952
  Grace Hopper: Navy Admiral and Computer Pioneer (1989)
%
The Feynman Algorithm:

1. Write down the problem.
2. Think real hard.
3. Write down the solution.

- As suggested by Murray Gell-Mann
%
There is a computer disease that anybody who works with computers knows about.
It's a very serious disease and it interferes completely with the work. The
trouble with computers is that you 'play' with them!

- Richard Feynman
%
A man provided with paper, pencil, and rubber, and subject to strict
discipline, is in effect a universal machine.

- Alan Turing
%
We can only see a short distance ahead, but we can see plenty there that needs
to be done.

- Alan Turing
%
The competent programmer is fully aware of the strictly limited size of his
own skull; therefore he approaches the programming task in full humility, and
among other things he avoids clever tricks like the plague.

- Edsger Dijkstra
  The Humble Programmer
%
Don't blame me for the fact that competent programming, as I view it as an
intellectual possibility, will be too difficult for "the average programmer" —
you must not fall into the trap of rejecting a surgical technique because it
is beyond the capabilities of the barber in his shop around the corner.

- Edsger Dijkstra
  Comments from a symposium, 1975
%
We are the masters. They are the slaves.

- Yukihiro Matsumoto
  Creator of the Ruby language
  On man-machine interactions and programming languages
